well it's benefitted me enormous Lee in
the sense that what I do is targeted
towards not only members of the
profession my profession the academic
area but also to the public in general
and
having published a number of papers and
open access
the the audience that you reach is far
far greater than you would reach in a
say a professional society journal that
doesn't have open access so if your
interest is to
get your work better known in the larger
community of both scholars and non
scholars I think open access is the way
to go
well we get started by I was invited to
the
initiate of the inaugural meeting
supporting the
nutrition and metabolism which is a
biomed central journal and
it was new to me at that time that was
back in in
2002 I believe and in that time we
didn't know much about open access so I
was very pleasantly impressed with how
the work that we presented at that
meeting was
published in the open access biomed
central at that time I thought that was
a was a very well organized journal that
was pleasing to the eye the data
the charts and graphs were done
exceptionally well and the paper
received a tremendous amount of
recognition so that was my initial it
was a nutrition and metabolism our first
paper was 2004 and since then we've
published several more papers and other
open access journals
well it depends on who on the faculty
you speak to and it depends on what
faculty that you speak to
we don't have a medical school at Boston
College
some some of the older professors and
professionals
will sometimes discourage younger
faculty from publishing open access
because these open access journals are
not held in the same esteem as some of
the lung traditional society journals as
a matter of fact younger professors not
only I'm not so sure about Boston
College but many many schools
discourage strongly young faculty from
publishing open access because they feel
this doesn't allow the prestige that you
would have in in in the more established
society journals and this is primarily
for promotion and grants so if grant
reviewers or the promotion consider a
committee sees
open access versus society journals
they'll figure that well this is an
easier course than going through the
society journal so and this is
unfortunate because because they're
essentially discouraging young faculty
from getting their work to a broader
audience just so that they can be viewed
as having accomplished more or having
their work considered more prestigious
by the professionals in the field who
adhere to this society journals so as a
professor and I don't have to worry
about that anymore I prefer open access
because I don't care what these others
think any longer it's no it's no longer
relevant to me but the issue of getting
the work recognized by a far greater
audience that to me is more important
well I mean the open access fund has
been this essential for us I mean we've
published several papers with the open
access fund here at Boston College you
know as I said I may not have been able
to
afford those those publication charges
if it weren't for the fund at Boston
College and therefore I would have had
to publish these papers in society
journals which would have been very
prestigious but they wouldn't have
targeted the broader the broader
audience so the OS open access fund that
we have here is an unbelievable resource
that not all universities have many
medical schools do not have this kind of
a fund so you have to get those monies
off of your federally sponsored projects
which takes away then funds from
reagents and supplies or salary support
for those technicians that are working
with you so BC makes it very easy for us
to do this and I also think if you're in
the in the business of wanting the
research of your faculty be to be seen
by a broad audience then the support
from their funding Open Access Fund is
definitely a excellent resource for for
us so I've benefitted tremendously from
this